My name is Winston Yu.
I'm currently a software engineer and localization and mapping at Zoox.
So, how I got started in autonomous vehicles
is when I was in my final year of university.
General Motors and the Society of Automotive Engineers or SAE,
they got together and they created the student competition called auto drive.
This was basically a three-year competition and at the end of each year,
there would be a contest.
The goal was at the end of all three years,
for the student teams to be able to create a level four vehicle,
level four on the SAE autonomy scale.
I was leading the trajectory planning team and I designed
the trajectory planning and lane
changing algorithms that we used in the contest in first year.
So, what end up happens we ended up winning.
We won first place and we've submitted
a paper detailing our design and that's in progress right now.
So, the moment I realized I was interested in
self-driving cars and this is a bit of a story, is way back.
At the beginning of my university career,
I was on the UAV student team,
that's Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.
So, we were building these fixed-wing drones that were semi-autonomous,
they were remote controlled,
and they had industrial cameras,
and they had computer onboard.
I led the computer vision side of things for that,
so I was responsible for detecting these letters painted onto wind signs.
These wind signs would be on the ground and our plane would be up 200 feet in the air.
Then, as I was driving down the street one day I thought, "Well, hey,
can I apply these same computer vision tools that I'm using
to detect the signs to detect road signs?"
I had this idea I was going put webcams on
my parent's car and drive it around the neighborhood and detect all of the street signs.
Well, my parents weren't too thrilled with that.
So, that project didn't end up going anywhere,
but then when the auto drive team at my school started recruiting,
I thought, "Well, hey, this is cool."
Then, once I actually started working on the project,
I realized this is something that I want to do,
and now I'm here.
So, at Zoox, I'm on the CLAMS team,
clams like the shellfish,
and that stands for Calibration,
Localization, and Mapping, simultaneously.
I'm mostly working on the mapping side of things which mostly entails generating 3D maps.
I can't get into too much more detail than that,
but suffice it to say that right now,
I know more about San Francisco geography
from building our maps than from actually being there.
What really gets me pumped up to go to work in
the mornings is the fact that I'm working on these really,
really cool problems that are cutting edge.
This is things that people or companies really haven't
tackled before because it's still a very active area of development.